01-setup/windows-users-install-wsl.md, before:

# Windows Users: Install WSL First

The open-source Apache tools like Spark come out of the open-source Linux world. 

We can get a little bit of Linux running on Windows machines and it makes installing and using these tools much easier. 

We'll use "Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL)"

Follow the guide to install and set up WSL. 

When working in WSL, our commands will be the same as those for Mac/Linux users. 

We'll clone the repo into WSL and do everything from within WSL on Windows.

## Update or Install WSL

Open **PowerShell as Administrator**. Try to update WSL.
If you have it great:

```powershell
wsl --update
```

If it fails, you'll need to install it. 
Run the following command.

```powershell
wsl --install
```

Important: Remember/record your username and password on WSL! 
Make it easy to remember. 

## Open a WSL terminal 

Open PowerShell terminal and run:

```powershell
wsl
```

## Update and Upgrade

**These and all other commands are to be run in your WSL terminal.** 

They are the same as the Mac/Linux versions - not our PowerShell commands.
If you get an error that sudo is not enabled and you want to continue, see the section below. 


```shell
sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade -y
```

Verify it is installed and running correctly.

```shell
wsl --list --verbose
```

## IF NEEDED: Enable Sudo "Super user" on Windows Machine WSL

Open Windows Settings:
- Open the Start Menu and select Settings (⚙️).
- Go to Developer Settings:
- Navigate to Privacy & Security → For developers.
- Enable Developer Mode:
  - Turn on Developer Mode (this allows elevated permissions in WSL).

Shutdown WSL: In your WSL terminal, run:

```shell
wsl --shutdown
```

Restart WSL: Open PowerShell as Admin and run:

```powershell
wsl
```

In the WSL window, run

```shell
sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade -y
wsl --list --verbose
```

Commit message:

prompt $ and cd to home

01-setup/windows-users-install-wsl.md, after:

# Windows Users: Install WSL First

The open-source Apache tools like Spark come out of the open-source Linux world. 

We can get a little bit of Linux running on Windows machines and it makes installing and using these tools much easier. 

We'll use "Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL)". Follow the guide to install and set up WSL. 

When working in WSL, our commands will be the same as those for Mac/Linux users. 

We'll clone the repo into WSL and do everything from within WSL on Windows.

## Update or Install WSL

Open **PowerShell as Administrator**. Try to update WSL.
If you have it great:

```powershell
wsl --update
```

If it fails, you'll need to install it. 
Run the following command.

```powershell
wsl --install
```

Important: Remember/record your username and password on WSL! 
Make it easy to remember. 

## Open a WSL terminal 

Open PowerShell terminal and run:

```powershell
wsl
```

Note: You know you're in a WSL terminal because the prompt changes from > to $. 

## Update and Upgrade

**These and all other commands are to be run in your WSL terminal.** 

They are the same as the Mac/Linux versions - not our PowerShell commands.
If you get an error that sudo is not enabled and you want to continue, see the section below. 


```shell
sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade -y
```

Change to your user directory. 
Run ls to list all the files and folders in your user directory. 
There may not be much yet. 
Now Windows users will follow the same Apache tool installation process as Mac/Linux users. 

```shell
cd ~/
ls
```

## IF NEEDED: Enable Sudo "Super user" on Windows Machine WSL

Open Windows Settings:
- Open the Start Menu and select Settings (⚙️).
- Go to Developer Settings:
- Navigate to Privacy & Security → For developers.
- Enable Developer Mode:
  - Turn on Developer Mode (this allows elevated permissions in WSL).

Shutdown WSL: In your WSL terminal, run:

```shell
wsl --shutdown
```

Restart WSL: Open PowerShell as Admin and run:

```powershell
wsl
```

In the WSL window, run

```shell
sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade -y
wsl --list --verbose
```
